# chisel-nbdev template
Use this template to more easily create your [chisel_nbdev](https://github.com/ucsc-vama/chisel_nbdev) project.

- Note: This repo is a fork of the [nbdev_template](https://github.com/fastai/nbdev_template) repo.

A detailed explantation to get started can be found from the original nbdev documentation: [here](https://nbdev.fast.ai/tutorial.html#Set-up-Repo)

## Recommended setup:
- setup some virtualenv (im using python3.8.2)
  - `pip install virtualenv`
  - find your python3 binary: `which python3` which for me is `/usr/local/bin/python3`
  - create the virtualenv`python3 -m virtualenv --python=/usr/local/bin/python3 chisel_nb_env`
- activate virtualenv: `source chisel_nb_env/bin/activate`
- install chisel-nbdev: `pip install -U chisel-nbdev`
- install Jupyter: `pip install jupyterlab`

### Setup the Jupyter Scala kernel Almond (https://almond.sh) 
- Borrowed from the Chisel-Bootcamp install guide: https://github.com/freechipsproject/chisel-bootcamp/blob/master/Install.md
- If you experience errors or issues with this section, try running `rm -rf ~/.local/share/jupyter/kernels/scala/` first.
- Next, download coursier (our dependency manager) and use it to install almond (our kernel wrapped around Ammonite) (see here for the source for these instructions):
```
curl -L -o coursier https://git.io/coursier-cli && chmod +x coursier
SCALA_VERSION=2.12.10 ALMOND_VERSION=0.9.1
./coursier bootstrap -r jitpack \
    -i user -I user:sh.almond:scala-kernel-api_$SCALA_VERSION:$ALMOND_VERSION \
    sh.almond:scala-kernel_$SCALA_VERSION:$ALMOND_VERSION \
    --sources --default=true \
    -o almond
./almond --install
```
- You can delete coursier and almond files if you so desire.

### Edit settings.ini
- By default Scala scripts generated from notebooks are placed in the `lib/` folder. If a more specific library name is desired edit `settings.ini`:
> ```
> lib_name=<your_name>
> ```
- For more info on the other settings see the original `nbdev` [here](https://nbdev.fast.ai/tutorial.html#Set-up-Repo).

### Export Notebooks To Scripts
- Running `chisel_nbdev_build_lib` within the virtualenv will export tagged cells from Almond notebooks into Ammonite scripts which can be imported into other notebooks.
- The first occurence of a cell tagged with `//default_exp <module_name>` will set the destination script.
- Scripts are written to the folder specified by `lib_name` in `settings.ini`.
- See `nbs/00_parent.ipynb` and `nbs/01_child.ipynb` for an example of importing code between notebooks.
 
### Start JupyterLab
- Making sure you have activated your virtualenv then run in terminal: ```jupyter lab```
- New notebooks can be added to the `nbs` folder through the `JupyterLab` IDE.

### Propagate changes from scripts to notebooks
- If code is added within cell boundaries, and no cells are added or removed, `chisel_nbdev_update_lib` will propagate the changes back to the source notebook file.

### Run tests from command line
- `chisel_nbdev_test_nbs` will run all of the tests (cells not containing `//export`) from the command line. (currently very slow)

## Troubleshooting Tips
- If `01_child.ipynb` does not work in JupyterLab it is likely the file `parent.sc` was never generated via `chisel_nbdev_build_lib`.
-  Make sure you are using the latest version of chisel-nbdev with `pip install -U chisel-nbdev`
-  It is important for you to spell the name of your user and repo correctly in `settings.ini` or the website will not have the correct address from which to source assets like CSS for your site.  When in doubt, you can open your browser's developer console and see if there are any errors related to fetching assets for your website due to an incorrect URL generated by misspelled values from `settings.ini`.
-  If you change the name of your repo, you have to make the appropriate changes in `settings.ini`
-  After you make changes to `settings.ini`, run `chisel_nbdev_build_lib && chisel_nbdev_clean_nbs && chisel_nbdev_build_docs` to make sure all changes are propagated appropriately.
-  `chisel_nbdev_build_docs` should be run from within the `nbs` folder.
-  In order to propagate changes between notebooks, the Ammonite scripts must be re-exported via `chisel_nbdev_build_lib` and the kernel of the destination notebook must be restarted to import the updated script.

